examples/service-hello-js/README.md, before:

# Hello World Example

This example demonstrates how to use KAR's REST API directly. It consists of an
[HTTP server](server.js) implemented using `express` and an [HTTP
client](client.js) implemented using `node-fetch` and `fetch-retry`.

Detailed instructions for running the example are contained in [Getting
Started](../../docs/getting-started.md).

## Server Code

The server code uses [express](https://www.npmjs.com/package/express) to standup
a REST server with two routes:
* The `helloText` route handles a `POST` with a request body with mime type
  `text/plain`. 
* The `helloJson` route handles a `POST` with a request body with mime type
  `application/json`.

The parsing of the request bodies is handled using builtin express parsers.

The server listens on the port specified by environment variable `KAR_APP_PORT`
that is expected to be set by the KAR application launcher.

As a simple security measure, the server only listens for requests coming from
`127.0.0.1` since all requests are expected to come from a KAR sidecar process
running on the same host (or pod).

## Client Code

The client code use [node-fetch](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-fetch) to
invoke the two routes in turn.

The client makes requests via its KAR sidecar process using port
`KAR_RUNTIME_PORT` that is expected to be set by the KAR application launcher.

The `url` function maps a service and route to the matching API of the KAR
sidecar.

The `fetch` function call is wrapped using
[fetch-retry](https://www.npmjs.com/package/fetch-retry) to retry requests up to
10 times over 10 seconds. These retries are intended to mask transient
communication errors between the client process and the KAR process that may
occur at startup time.

Commit message:

improvements to getting started docs/example based on Eddie's feedback (#331)
* bug fix in `kar rest` -- http methods are case-sensitive

* improvements to getting started docs/example based on Eddie's feedback

examples/service-hello-js/README.md, after:

# Hello World Example

This example demonstrates how to use KAR's REST API directly. It consists of an
[HTTP server](server.js) implemented using `express` and an [HTTP
client](client.js) implemented using `node-fetch` and `fetch-retry`.

You will need Node 12 (LTS) and NPM 6.12+ to run this example

## Running the Code

In one window:
```shell
npm install --prod
kar run -app hello-js -service greeter node server.js
```

In a second window:
```shell
kar run -app hello-js node client.js
```

You should see output like shown below in both windows:
```
2020/04/02 17:41:23 [STDOUT] Hello John Doe!
2020/04/02 17:41:23 [STDOUT] Hello John Doe!
```
The client process will exit, while the server remains running. You
can send another request, or exit the server with a Control-C.

You can also use the `kar` cli to invoke the service directly:
```shell
kar rest -app hello-js post greeter helloJson '{"name": "Alan Turing"}'
```

## Looking Inside the Server Code

The server code uses [express](https://www.npmjs.com/package/express) to standup
a REST server with two routes:
* The `helloText` route handles a `POST` with a request body with mime type
  `text/plain`. 
* The `helloJson` route handles a `POST` with a request body with mime type
  `application/json`.

The parsing of the request bodies is handled using builtin express parsers.

The server listens on the port specified by environment variable `KAR_APP_PORT`
that is expected to be set by the KAR application launcher.

As a simple security measure, the server only listens for requests coming from
`127.0.0.1` since all requests are expected to come from a KAR sidecar process
running on the same host (or pod).

## Looking Inside the Client Code

The client code use [node-fetch](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-fetch) to
invoke the two routes in turn.

The client makes requests via its KAR sidecar process using port
`KAR_RUNTIME_PORT` that is expected to be set by the KAR application launcher.

The `url` function maps a service and route to the matching API of the KAR
sidecar.

The `fetch` function call is wrapped using
[fetch-retry](https://www.npmjs.com/package/fetch-retry) to retry requests up to
10 times over 10 seconds. These retries are intended to mask transient
communication errors between the client process and the KAR process that may
occur at startup time.
