examples/actors-dp-java/README.md, before:

<!--
# Copyright IBM Corporation 2020,2021
#
# Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
# you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
# You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
-->

This example uses KAR's Actor Programming Model to implement
Dijkstra's solution to the Dining Philosophers problem
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dining_philosophers_problem).

The Philosophers and their Forks are all actors and interact via actor
method invocations to implement the distributed protocol that ensures
no Philosopher starves.

Philosophers use actor reminders (time triggered callbacks) to trigger
their actions.

Fault tolerance is provided by checkpointing actor state and the
at-least-once invocation semantics provided by KAR.

A Cafe may contain an arbitrary number of tables of Philosophers. Each
Cafe tracks its occupancy and generates messages when it seats new
tables or when a sated Philosopher leaves.

## Open Liberty
To run the example locally in Open Liberty, first change
your working directory to the liberty sub-directory (`cd liberty`).

Next compile and package the application by doing `mvn package`.

Finally run the application by doing:
```shell
kar run -app dp -actors Cafe,Fork,Philosopher,Table mvn liberty:run
```
In a second shell window, use the `kar` cli to invite some Philosopers to dinner:
```shell
# Invite 10 Philosophers to a meal of 20 servings each
kar invoke -app dp Cafe "Cafe de Flore" seatTable 10 20
```

Commit message:

instructions for running using Quarkus

examples/actors-dp-java/README.md, after:

<!--
# Copyright IBM Corporation 2020,2021
#
# Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
# you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
# You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
-->

This example uses KAR's Actor Programming Model to implement
Dijkstra's solution to the Dining Philosophers problem
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dining_philosophers_problem).

The Philosophers and their Forks are all actors and interact via actor
method invocations to implement the distributed protocol that ensures
no Philosopher starves.

Philosophers use actor reminders (time triggered callbacks) to trigger
their actions.

Fault tolerance is provided by checkpointing actor state and the
at-least-once invocation semantics provided by KAR.

A Cafe may contain an arbitrary number of tables of Philosophers. Each
Cafe tracks its occupancy and generates messages when it seats new
tables or when a sated Philosopher leaves.

## Open Liberty
To run the example locally using Open Liberty, first change
your working directory to the liberty sub-directory (`cd liberty`).

Next compile and package the application by doing `mvn package`.

Finally run the application by doing:
```shell
kar run -app dp -actors Cafe,Fork,Philosopher,Table mvn liberty:run
```
In a second shell window, use the `kar` cli to invite some Philosopers to dinner:
```shell
# Invite 10 Philosophers to a meal of 20 servings each
kar invoke -app dp Cafe "Cafe de Flore" seatTable 10 20
```

## Quakrus
To run the example locally using Quakrus, first change
your working directory to the quarkus sub-directory (`cd quarkus`).

Next compile and package the application by doing `mvn package`.

Finally run the application by doing:
```shell
kar run -app dp -actors Cafe,Fork,Philosopher,Table mvn quarkus:dev
```
In a second shell window, use the `kar` cli to invite some Philosopers to dinner:
```shell
# Invite 10 Philosophers to a meal of 20 servings each
kar invoke -app dp Cafe "Cafe de Flore" seatTable 10 20
```
