examples/java/actors/README.md, before:

# Java Actors example

## Prerequisites
- Java 8 or 11
- Maven 3.6.x

Note: the SDK and example code have been tested using MicroProfile 3.3 and the Open Liberty Plugin 3.2 (which pulls v20.0.0.X of openliberty)

## Building the example

In `examples/java/actors`:
```shell
mvn clean install
```

## Running the example
In one terminal start the server
```shell
cd ./kar-actor-example
kar -app actor -service dummy -actors dummy,dummy2,calculator mvn liberty:run
```

Wait a few seconds until you see something similar to:
```shell
...
2020/06/17 14:17:57.219810 [STDOUT] [INFO] [AUDIT   ] CWWKF0012I: The server installed the following features: [beanValidation-2.0, cdi-2.0, concurrent-1.0, el-3.0, jaxrs-2.1, jaxrsClient-2.1, jndi-1.0, json-1.0, jsonb-1.0, jsonp-1.1, mpConfig-1.3, mpHealth-2.1, mpOpenTracing-1.3, mpRestClient-1.3, opentracing-1.3, servlet-4.0].
2020/06/17 14:17:57.221198 [STDOUT] [INFO] [AUDIT   ] CWWKF0011I: The defaultServer server is ready to run a smarter planet. The defaultServer server started in 14.519 seconds.
```


#### Use curl
To use `curl` to call an actor directly on the KAR sidecar:
```shell
kar -runtime_port 32123 -app actor curl -s -H "Content-Type: application/kar+json" -X POST http://localhost:32123/kar/v1/actor/dummy/dummyid/call/canBeInvoked -d '[{ "number": 10}]'
```

You should see output like:
```shell
2020/05/15 10:47:09 [STDOUT] {"number":12}
```

#### Use Java example
You can run a simple test Java application packaged with `kar-rest-client` that uses the KAR Java SDK to call an actor:

```shell
$ cd ./sdk/java/kar-java/kar-rest-client/scripts/
$ ./runKar.sh
```
You should see output like:
```shell
2020/06/17 15:02:09.032753 [STDOUT] {"number":44}
```

## Microprofile Open Tracing
Preliminary [Open Tracing](https://opentracing.io/) is enabled for `kar-actor-example`.  

To use when running Jaeger and `kar-actor-example` on localhost:

1. Run Jaeger backend:
```
$ docker run -d --name jaeger \
  -e COLLECTOR_ZIPKIN_HTTP_PORT=9411 \
  -p 5775:5775/udp \
  -p 6831:6831/udp \
  -p 6832:6832/udp \
  -p 5778:5778 \
  -p 16686:16686 \
  -p 14268:14268 \
  -p 14250:14250 \
  -p 9411:9411 \
  jaegertracing/all-in-one:1.18
  ```

2. Browse to  [`http://localhost:16686/`](http://localhost:16686/) to access the Jaeger UI

3. Run the example.

4. After a period of time, the trace will appear in the Jaeger UI search.

Commit message:

Java actor protocol changes to match JavaScript (#207)
* Java actor runtime: synchronize with JavaScript response codes

Adjust the internals of the Java actor runtime implementation
to better align with the revised 200/201/400/404/etc.
response structure expected by the Go sidecar and implemented in
the JavaScript actor runtime.

* implement wrapped actor response protocol for Java SDK

If an actor method is invoked, we always return a 200 response
to the sidecar along with a response body that is either a
wrapped return value or a wrapped error message/stack.  The
response is unwrapped in the SDK layer and the result is either
returned from actorCall (normal return) or an exception is raised
(error return).

* make ActorExceptions unchecked

Now that we have decent exception propagation for actor invocations,
it makes sense to make the various actor exceptions unchecked to
avoid lots of boilerplate code on every actor method.
  + rename BaseActorException to ActorException
  + change ActorException to extend RuntimeException instead of Exception
  + cleanup example code

* update README for wrapping of Java actor return results

examples/java/actors/README.md, after:

# Java Actors example

## Prerequisites
- Java 8 or 11
- Maven 3.6.x

Note: the SDK and example code have been tested using MicroProfile 3.3 and the Open Liberty Plugin 3.2 (which pulls v20.0.0.X of openliberty)

## Building the example

In `examples/java/actors`:
```shell
mvn clean install
```

## Running the example
In one terminal start the server
```shell
cd ./kar-actor-example
kar -app actor -service dummy -actors dummy,dummy2,calculator mvn liberty:run
```

Wait a few seconds until you see something similar to:
```shell
...
2020/06/17 14:17:57.219810 [STDOUT] [INFO] [AUDIT   ] CWWKF0012I: The server installed the following features: [beanValidation-2.0, cdi-2.0, concurrent-1.0, el-3.0, jaxrs-2.1, jaxrsClient-2.1, jndi-1.0, json-1.0, jsonb-1.0, jsonp-1.1, mpConfig-1.3, mpHealth-2.1, mpOpenTracing-1.3, mpRestClient-1.3, opentracing-1.3, servlet-4.0].
2020/06/17 14:17:57.221198 [STDOUT] [INFO] [AUDIT   ] CWWKF0011I: The defaultServer server is ready to run a smarter planet. The defaultServer server started in 14.519 seconds.
```

### Use kar
You can use the `kar` cli to invoke an actor method
```shell
kar -app actor -invoke dummy dummyid canBeInvoked '{"number":10}'
```

You should see output like:
```shell
2020/06/26 11:09:36.397079 [STDOUT] {"value":{"number":12}}
```

#### Use kar+curl (lower-level)
You can use the `kar` cli to wrap a curl command that directly invokes the lower-level KAR REST API:
```shell
kar -runtime_port 32123 -app actor curl -s -H "Content-Type: application/kar+json" -X POST http://localhost:32123/kar/v1/actor/dummy/dummyid/call/canBeInvoked -d '[{ "number": 10}]'
```

You should see output like:
```shell
2020/05/15 10:47:09 [STDOUT] {"value":{"number":12}}
```

#### Use Java example
You can run a simple test Java application packaged with `kar-rest-client` that uses the KAR Java SDK to call an actor:

```shell
$ cd ./sdk/java/kar-java/kar-rest-client/scripts/
$ ./runKar.sh
```
You should see output like:
```shell
2020/06/17 15:02:09.032753 [STDOUT] {"number":44}
```

## Microprofile Open Tracing
Preliminary [Open Tracing](https://opentracing.io/) is enabled for `kar-actor-example`.  

To use when running Jaeger and `kar-actor-example` on localhost:

1. Run Jaeger backend:
```
$ docker run -d --name jaeger \
  -e COLLECTOR_ZIPKIN_HTTP_PORT=9411 \
  -p 5775:5775/udp \
  -p 6831:6831/udp \
  -p 6832:6832/udp \
  -p 5778:5778 \
  -p 16686:16686 \
  -p 14268:14268 \
  -p 14250:14250 \
  -p 9411:9411 \
  jaegertracing/all-in-one:1.18
  ```

2. Browse to  [`http://localhost:16686/`](http://localhost:16686/) to access the Jaeger UI

3. Run the example.

4. After a period of time, the trace will appear in the Jaeger UI search.
